OSDOCS-12666: ROSA HCP: Shared VPC (#85700)
openshift/openshift-docs: rosa_hcp/rosa-hcp-shared-vpc-config.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
include::_attributes/attributes-openshift-dedicated.adoc[]
[id="rosa-hcp-shared-vpc-config"]
= Configuring a shared VPC for ROSA with HCP clusters
:context: rosa-shared-vpc-config

toc::[]

> You can create {hcp-title-first} clusters in shared,centrally-managed AWS virtual private clouds (VPCs).

Reviewer: (space after comma)

[NOTE]
====
This process requires *two separate* AWS accounts that belong to the same AWS organization. One account functions as the VPC-owning AWS account (*VPC Owner*), while the other account creates the cluster in the cluster-creating AWS account (*Cluster Creator*).
====

image::522-shared-vpc-overview.png[]

* The hosted zones can be created in either the centrally-managed VPC account or in the workload account in which the cluster is deployed.

.Prerequisites for the *VPC Owner*
* You have an AWS account with the proper permissions to create roles and share resources.

> * The *Cluster Creator's* AWS account is separate from the *VPC Owner's* AWS account.

Reviewer: must the accounts be separate? would this work with multiple VPCs in the same account?

Reviewer 2: Not sure if I follow, why would a customer attempt to share a vpc with the same account that created the vpc?

Reviewer 3: This will not work with multiple VPCs in the same account. I think we should remove this line.

Reviewer 2: Why remove it @michaelryanmcneill ? It is the vpc resource that is mentioned it needs to be in a separate account shared to the cluster owner account. Why wouldn't it work with multiple vpcs in the same account?

> * Both AWS accounts belong to the same AWS organization.

Reviewer 3: We say this in the above admonition. Can we remove this from here?

> * You enabled resource sharing from the management account for your organization.

Reviewer: how do I do this? is it shown elsewhere? how can I tell if it's enabled/disabled?

> * You have access to the link:https://signin.aws.amazon.com[AWS console].

Reviewer: is the AWS console truly necessary?

Reviewer 2: Customer can follow through with any AWS entrypoint they would like console, cli, tf provider etc

.Prerequisites for the *Cluster Creator*

> * You installed the link:https://console.redhat.com/openshift/downloads#tool-rosa[ROSA CLI (`rosa`)] 1.2.26 or later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You installed the link:https://console.redhat.com/openshift/downloads#tool-rosa[ROSA CLI (`rosa`)] 1.2.49 or later.
```

* You created all of the required link:https://docs.openshift.com/rosa/rosa_install_access_delete_clusters/rosa-sts-creating-a-cluster-quickly.html[ROSA account roles] for creating a cluster.

> * The *Cluster Creator's* AWS account is separate from the *VPC Owner's* AWS account.

Reviewer: (asked about the necessity of this earlier)

Reviewer 3: I think we should remove this line.

* Both AWS accounts belong to the same AWS organization.

[NOTE]
====

> Installing a cluster in a shared VPC is supported only for OpenShift 4.12.34 and later, 4.13.10 and later, and all future 4.y-streams.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Installing a cluster in a shared VPC is supported only for OpenShift 4.17.9 and later, and all future 4.y-streams.
```

> * Both AWS accounts belong to the same AWS organization.

Reviewer 3: We say this in the above admonition. Can we remove this from here?

> Installing a cluster in a shared VPC is supported only for OpenShift 4.17.9 and later, 4.13.10 and later, and all future 4.y-streams.

Reviewer 3: We should change this to be 4.17.9 and later only. 4.13 and later was only for ROSA Classic.
